# APIs

HyperCard was an "API" for building certain kinds of computer applications.

Spreadsheets are an API for building other kinds of computer applications.

High-level languages are APIs for building assembler programs.  

Assembler is an API for building products using VLSI electronics.

VLSI is an API for building transistorized products.  The VLSI API is more physical than what programmers usually think of as an API.  The VLSI API consists of black epoxy (or plastic) and metal pins.  Plus, documentation which is not typically TL;DR.

Transistors are an API for building electronic products.

Electronics is an API for building products out of molecules.

Molecules are an API for building things out of Atoms.

...

# API Goodness

All APIs emphasize portions of a domain while suppressing (eliding) other parts of a domain.

A good API makes common actions easier and opens the door to more users.

A good API does not simply throw away features of the underlying system, but suppresses them by pushing them down to lower levels.


# API Usability

Spreadsheets opened the door for automating accounting.  The automation is written by non-programmers, in this case accountants.

Programming languages are APIs which are based on the sequencing of carefully chosen words in carefully chosen phrases.

High-level languages are usually considered to be too complicated for use without lots of training, e.g. university education.

Likewise, electronics design would be out of reach for most non-EE programmers.  The assembler API, and, the towers of APIs built on top of assembler, make designing certain kinds of electronic products ("computers") accessible to a much wider class of designers.

"Functional Programming" is a good API.  The FP API is limited, though, in what it allows users to easily express.  FP elides "mutation", whereas computers support "mutation", aka RAM / Files / etc.

# Using Multiple APIs

I suggest that we choose APIs depending on the problem-to-be-solved.

If the problem requires multiple views - multiple APIs - then, one should use multiple APIs and plumb them together to make a complete solution.

For example: FP elides mutation which makes building fancy calculators easy and robust.  FP, though, fights problems that require mutation (like multitasking, sequencing, robotics, user interfaces, etc., etc.).  When FP is forcibly used to create solutions for such non-FP problems, the result is towers of epicycles and bloatware, for example, the notion of "thread safety" is caused by trying to handle mutation and concurrency using FP. 

# SCNs, DSLs, Programming Languages, IDEs, Macros

At this moment, we favour building computer programs using APIs we call "programming languages".  Programming languages are built on top of the API called "text".

Each programming language emphasizes a certain kind of thinking while suppressing other kinds of thinking.  

It is possible to build solutions using multiple programming languages, but, this option is often overlooked.

The API called UNIX "/bin/sh" allows programmers to plumb multiple languages together.  This kind of plumbing is not very popular and is not heavily researched.

We use IDE - integrated development environments - to bolt disparate APIs together (programming language, text editors, debuggers, compilers, etc., etc.).

In some cases, common ideas are de-generalized to make DSLs - domain specific languages.  In these cases, general purpose programming languages are too general.  APIs - DSLs - are built on top of such general puspose programming languages.

DSLs, though, require a lot of under-the-hood programming.  DSLs are internally complicated, like compilers.

Lispers are familiar with a different brand of de-generalization, called "macros".  Lispers live in a soup of functionality and fling little DSLs to life in minutes, knowing that the underlying Lisp soup will handle implementation details.

With the advent of Ohm-JS, spawned by the advent of PEG, and inspired by pre-existing technologies called "recursive descent parsing", macros become available outside of the Lisp world.  

Ohm-JS works with characters, whereas Lisp macros work only with trees (also called "lists").

Aside: it is possible to build parsers for other kinds of data structures, like diagrams, but this is not very popular yet (see 0D as an enabling technology).

I use the term SCN - solution centric notation - to mean macro-like little languages.

SCNs take very little effort to build.  Most of the heavy lifting (type checking, etc.) is done at lower levels by the enclosing soup of general purpose programming language compilers and interpreters.

Currently, I use Ohm-JS to build SCNs.  I invent a notation on-the-fly by writing out what I want to say and to think about.  Then, I write a pattern-matcher that transpiles my notation's phrases into some pre-existing language, like Python, JavaScript, Lisp, etc.  I built a proof-of-concept showing that an SCN can be transpiled into WASM.  The pattern-matcher uses Ohm-JS to grok the notation and uses a small tool "fmt-js" to fabricate code.  "Fmt-js" was preceded by "prep" and "prep" was preceded by "glue".

# 0D
I believe that research and development of 0D - zero dependency - technology is needed and that it will enable plumbing multiple APIs / languages together.

Some of this 0D kind of thinking is embedded in the things calls "processes" in the things called "operating systems".  Processes require programs to snip all coupling before the underlying operating systems can schedule their execution.