Thanks, this, probably, answers my questions.

I found there to be a chasm between JS and node.js.  I assumed that the problem was me - I assumed that I was missing something.

Your answers seem to say that there is a chasm between JS and node.js and that it's not just due to my ignorance.

1. Minification - been there got the T-shirt.  Early BASICs used to do this and one of the arguments was exactly the same - obfuscation.  Back then, the concept of "open source" did not exist.  Everyone was convinced that code was a precious trade secret that needed to be protected and hoarded.  I disassembled Mircosoft's MS-DOS and sent the listing to DDJ.  They never published it and never got back to me.  UNIX was totally weird - Bell Labs made it possible for educational institutions to afford to buy a UNIX license (~$50k), and to let their students see the source code.  Yet, students could not afford to (legally) own a copy of the UNIX source code after they graduated.  Linus broke the mold by making Linux source code available.

   MInification for obfuscation is a one-way mapping - from design-info-rich to design-info-poor.  The hope is that it would need too much effort to reverse-engineer the info-poor version to recreate the design-rich information
   
2. I wrote a few scripts to scrape .HTML and to convert the code to node.js compatible code.  I thought that I was missing something more simple, due to ignorance.  Maybe not.
---

Thanks, this probably does answer my questions.

I thought there was a chasm between JS and node.js.  I assumed that the problem was me - I assumed that I was missing something, but it seems that the problem is really there. 

Your answers seem to say that there really is a chasm between JS and node.js and that it's not just due to my ignorance.

Oh my, I just looked up CommonJS and still see a chasm.