I am revisiting Sector Lisp in JavaScript.  I have forgotten what registers CX and DX are used for.  Likewise, all of the rest of the register-ish-named variables are for.  I can figure this out, but, if it's easy for anyone to remind me, please do...

---

> i am always interested in hearing about better abstractions, even if i  
never have the time to actually dig into them much :-(  
  
> overall my high level feeling is that i want to be way more  
declarative and thus have way more flexibility in how things can morph  
over the lifetime of a software project.  
  
> i handwavingly feel like global pub/sub is sorta a good step in that  
direction. i'd like declarative rules about who can pub and sub, the  
many-to-many tables that would control visibility.

# Discussion
IMO: 
- Using only one "abstraction" is trouble.  For example, the very common abstraction of "functions" is rife with problems: (1) implied synchrony / sequencing (2) blocking behaviour (caller blocks waiting for callee to return a value) (3) restrictions on routing (only one routing choice is supported - callee MUST return a value to the caller ; if you want something else, like unfettered client/server, you are on your own) (4) not to mention the common idea of using functional notation to hard-wire names of functions into code (insiduous dependencies)
- I argue that we should use multiple "abstractions" (notations) in each project ; this used to be difficult in the 1950s, but, now with Ohm-JS, you can knock off new notations in mere minutes.  Lispers have been doing this for a long time, but Lisp restricts notation-building to Trees (aka Lists) only
- 'if-then-else' should be abolished - it is too low-level and leads to ad-hoc use of state (N.B. "pattern matching" is  being re-discovered (tighter than if-then-else) and was well-established in the 1960s under a different name: "parsing")

- declarative: I can't think of many "declarative" languages.  PROLOG is declarative, but is biased towards Relations (miniKanren and core.logic are follow-ons to PROLOG ; PROLOG used backtracking to implement declarativity (frowned upon in the 1950s), miniKanren uses a different trick)
- HTML is declarative
- XML is declarative, but something ain't right
- main point of declarative: separate "what" from "how" - let the Engine decide the "how"
	- what is "what" and what is "how"?
		- int/float/double/etc. is "how" IMO
		- handles are "what"
		- using Objects is "what", defining Objects is "how", IMO (arguable)


- pub/sub - disaster waiting to happen - anything that can change behaviour at runtime will be abused and cause headaches and lack-of-understandability
- dynamic changes used to be called "self modifying code" - highly frowned upon
- need "structured pub/sub" and "pre-compiled pub/sub" (IMO, that's the main benefit of DaS (Diagrams As Syntax)) and 0D (Zero Dependency - build-and-forget


# Practical
- how to write declarative code now: possible, using discipline, like Structured Programming in Assembler before the invention of higher-level languages
	- write meaningful phrases, and, use Ohm-JS to transpile them into detailed "how" code
	- e.g. "I want a cheeseburger" -> "a += 3 + y;" (arbitrary phrase maps to arbitrary code)

# notes
- OCG, RTL, S/SL
- scalability: Org Charts in Big Business, "micro management" & "going over the boss' head"
- 0D - ports
